Python Setup
Using anaconda Distribution for Python
1.Anaconda Install python and easy to use in Development Environment.
2.Briefly run Jupyter Notebook.
 anaconda.com/download
 
 Using Online interpreter for Python
 1.Online Jupyter Notebook
 2. Google colab niotebook
 
 Using CMD
 Using IDE (Pycharm,Spyder)

Python Object and Data Structure Basics
A. Introduction to Python Data Types
1.Text Type:	    str
2.Numeric Types:	int, float, complex
3.Sequence Types:	list, tuple, range
4.Mapping Type:	    dict
5.Set Types:	    set, frozenset
6.Boolean Type:	    bool
7.Binary Types:	    bytes, bytearray, memoryview

B. Python Numbers
1.There are three numeric types in Python:
int  Eg. x = 1    # int
float Eg. y = 2.8  # float
complex eg. z = 1j   # complex

C. Python Variables
A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.

x = str(3)    # x will be '3'
y = int(3)    # y will be 3
z = float(3)  # z will be 3.0

D.Introduction to Strings
Strings are sequences of characters using the strings either a single quote or double quote.
eg. 'hello' is the same as "hello".

Python - Slicing Strings
Specify the start index and the end index, separated by a colon, to return a part of the string.

String Concatenation: Using + to concatinate strings

E.Python Booleans
You can evaluate any expression in Python, and get one of two answers, True or False.
When you compare two values, the expression is evaluated and Python returns the Boolean answer:

F.Python Dictionaries
Dictionaries are used to store data values in 'key:value pairs.'

A dictionary is a collection which is unordered, changeable and does not allow duplicates.

Unordered: When we say that dictionaries are unordered, it means that the items does not have a defined order, you cannot refer to an item by using an index.

Changeable: Dictionaries are changeable, meaning that we can change, add or remove items after the dictionary has been created.

Duplicates Not Allowed: Dictionaries cannot have two items with the same key:

D.Python Tuples
Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.

E.Python For Loops

A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence (that is either a list, a tuple, a dictionary, a set, or a string).

This is less like the for keyword in other programming languages, and works more like an iterator method as found in other object-orientated programming languages.

G.Python If Else Conditions

Python supports the usual logical conditions from mathematics:
Equals: a == b
Not Equals: a != b
Less than: a < b
Less than or equal to: a <= b
Greater than: a > b
Greater than or equal to: a >= b

H.Python While Loops
With the while loop we can execute a set of statements as long as a condition is true.

Python has two primitive loop commands:
while loops
for loops


I. Python Sets

Sets are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

J.Python Datetime
A date in Python is not a data type of its own, but we can import a module named datetime to work with dates as date objects.

K.Python Casting
int() - constructs an integer number from an integer literal, a float literal (by rounding down to the previous whole number), or a string literal (providing the string represents a whole number)
float() - constructs a float number from an integer literal, a float literal or a string literal (providing the string represents a float or an integer)
str() - constructs a string from a wide variety of data types, including strings, integer literals and float literals

L.Python Classes/Objects
Python is an object oriented programming language.

Almost everything in Python is an object, with its properties and methods.

A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

M.Python Math
Python has a set of built-in math functions, including an extensive math module, that allows you to perform mathematical tasks on numbers.
min() and max() functions can be used to find the lowest or highest value
The pow(x, y) function returns the value of x to the power of y (xy).

N.Python Scope: A variable is only available from inside the region it is created. This is called scope.

O.Operator: Operators are the constructs which can manipulate the value of operands.
Python language supports the following types of operators.

Arithmetic Operators
Comparison (Relational) Operators
Assignment Operators
Logical Operators
Bitwise Operators
Membership Operators
Identity Operators

P.Funcitons:A function is a block of code which only runs when it is called. You can pass data, known as parameters, into a function.

Calling a Function:  To call a function, use the function name followed by parenthesis
Eg.
def my_function():
  print("Hello from a function")

my_function()

p.1 Arguments: Information can be passed into functions as arguments.

Arguments are specified after the function name, inside the parentheses. You can add as many arguments as you want, just separate them with a comma.

Q. Python Inheritance
Inheritance allows us to define a class that inherits all the methods and properties from another class.
Parent class is the class being inherited from, also called base class.

::Add the __init__() Function: The __init__() function is called automatically every time the class is being used to create a new object.
::Use the super() Function:  By using the super() function, you do not have to use the name of the parent element, 
it will automatically inherit the methods and properties from its parent.

-I/O with Basic Files
: Python File Open: File handling is an important part of any web application.
Python has several functions for creating, reading, updating, and deleting files.
The key function for working with files in Python is the open() function.

The open() function takes two parameters; filename, and mode.

"r" - Read - Default value. Opens a file for reading, error if the file does not exist

"a" - Append - Opens a file for appending, creates the file if it does not exist

"w" - Write - Opens a file for writing, creates the file if it does not exist

"x" - Create - Creates the specified file, returns an error if the file exists

In addition you can specify if the file should be handled as binary or text mode

"t" - Text - Default value. Text mode

"b" - Binary - Binary mode (e.g. images)
Eg.
f = open("demofile.txt")
f = open("demofile.txt", "rt")


R. Python Try Except
The try block lets you test a block of code for errors.

The except block lets you handle the error.

The finally block lets you execute code, regardless of the result of the try- and except blocks.
